Run EA container + managed by fleet + standalone + autodiscovery (#2366)
elastic/observability-docs: docs/en/ingest-management/elastic-agent/configuration/autodiscovery/kubernetes-conditions-autodiscover.asciidoc

  labels:
    k8s-app: redis
    app: redis
spec:
  containers:
  - image: redis
    imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
    name: redis
    ports:
    - name: redis
      containerPort: 6379
      protocol: TCP
------------------------------------------------

You should now be able to see Redis data flowing in on index `metrics-redis.info-default`. Make sure the port in your Redis manifest file matches the port used in the Redis input.

NOTE: All assets (dashboards, ingest pipelines, and so on) related to the Redis integration are not installed. You need to explicitly <<install-uninstall-integration-assets,install them through {kib}>>.

To set the target host dynamically for a targeted Pod based on its labels, use a variable in the {agent} policy to return path information from the provider:

[source,yaml]
----
- data_stream:
    dataset: kubernetes.scheduler
    type: metrics
  metricsets:
    - scheduler
  bearer_token_file: /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/token
  hosts:
    - 'https://${kubernetes.pod.ip}:10259'
  period: 10s
  ssl.verification_mode: none
  condition: ${kubernetes.labels.component} == 'kube-scheduler'
----

> WARNING: In some "As a Service" Kubernetes implementations, like GKE, the control plane nodes or even the Pods running on them won’t be visible. In these cases, it won’t be possible to use scheduler metricsets, necessary for this example. Refer https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/metricbeat/current/metricbeat-module-kubernetes.html#_scheduler_and_controllermanager[scheduler and controller manager] to find more information.

Author: I think it is important because readers get an idea how to set the host dynamically, and if we don't include it they may not get there on their own. I can only speak for myself, but as someone with little experience with Kubernetes, it would took me awhile to get there.

> WARNING: In some "As a Service" Kubernetes implementations, like GKE, the control plane nodes or even the Pods running on them won’t be visible. In these cases, it won’t be possible to use scheduler metricsets, necessary for this example. Refer https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/metricbeat/current/metricbeat-module-kubernetes.html#_scheduler_and_controllermanager[scheduler and controller manager] to find more information.

Author: At first it was indeed a separate block. But after discussion, [it changed ](https://github.com/elastic/observability-docs/pull/2366#discussion_r1024087341)

> WARNING: In some "As a Service" Kubernetes implementations, like GKE, the control plane nodes or even the Pods running on them won’t be visible. In these cases, it won’t be possible to use scheduler metricsets, necessary for this example. Refer https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/metricbeat/current/metricbeat-module-kubernetes.html#_scheduler_and_controllermanager[scheduler and controller manager] to find more information.

Reviewer: I still don't understand why example with scheduler is needed here, and what value does it bring if there exists already example with `${kubernetes.pod.ip}`.

As you already have enough reviews - you can merge this PR

- name: redis
  type: redis/metrics
  use_output: default
  meta:
    package:
      name: redis
      version: 0.3.6
  data_stream:
    namespace: default
  streams:
    - data_stream:
        dataset: redis.info
        type: metrics
      metricsets:
        - info
      hosts:
        - '${kubernetes.pod.ip}:6379'
      idle_timeout: 20s
      maxconn: 10
      network: tcp
      period: 10s
      condition: ${kubernetes.labels.app} == 'redis'
------------------------------------------------

The condition `${kubernetes.labels.app} == 'redis'` will make the {agent} look for a Pod with the  label `app:redis` within the scope defined in its manifest.

For a list of provider fields that you can use in conditions, refer to <<kubernetes-provider>>.

The `redis` input defined in the {agent} manifest only specifies the`info` metricset. To learn about other available metricsets and their configuration settings, refer to the {metricbeat-ref}/metricbeat-module-redis.html[Redis module page].

To deploy Redis, you can apply the following example manifest:

[source,yaml]
------------------------------------------------
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: redis
  annotations:

>     co.elastic.hints/package: redis

Reviewer: do we need those annotations in example for `Conditions based autodiscover`?

Author: We do not. I will remove it

[[conditions-based-autodiscover]]
= Conditions based autodiscover

You can define autodiscover conditions in each input to allow {agent} to automatically identify Pods and start monitoring them using predefined integrations. You can find more about these inputs and their configurations <<elastic-agent-input-configuration,here>>.

== Example: Target pods by host and label

> To automatically identify a Redis Pod and monitor it with the Redis integration, uncomment the following input configuration in the {agent} manifest:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To automatically identify a Redis Pod and monitor it with the Redis integration, uncomment the following input configuration inside  the {agent} Standalone manifest [here](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/blob/main/deploy/kubernetes/elastic-agent-standalone-kubernetes.yaml):
```

[source,yaml]
------------------------------------------------
- name: redis
  type: redis/metrics
  use_output: default
  meta:
    package:
      name: redis
      version: 0.3.6
  data_stream:
    namespace: default
  streams:
    - data_stream:
        dataset: redis.info
        type: metrics
      metricsets:
        - info
      hosts:
        - '${kubernetes.pod.ip}:6379'
      idle_timeout: 20s
      maxconn: 10
      network: tcp
      period: 10s
      condition: ${kubernetes.labels.app} == 'redis'
------------------------------------------------

> The condition `${kubernetes.labels.app} == 'redis'` will make the {agent} look for a Pod with the `redis` label app within the scope defined in its manifest. You can find the exported fields of the Kubernetes integration {metricbeat-ref}/exported-fields-kubernetes-processor.html[here].

Reviewer 2: @dedemorton I dont like here that we point to metricbeat links. Can we change that?

Also for kubernetes I can see two pages created, one for metadata and one for processor because they come from different places but with same title

Reviewer 3: @gizas Yah that's not ideal. I'm looking at your comment a bit out of context, but I think it's also strange that the link says the fields are added by the K8s integration, but the link points to the fields added by the processor. Does the integration (or provider) call the processor under the hood? Should we be pointing to the field reference in the [integrations documentation](https://docs.elastic.co/integrations)? Sorry to answer your question with more questions, but I haven't had a chance to dig into this problem very deeply.

I'm actually working on adding processor docs to the Fleet/Agent/Integrations documentation, but I haven't started documenting processors like `add_kubernetes_metadata` because I don't know if they are handled by the provider implementation. If we _do_ include those metadata processors, we will show examples of the events returned, but TBH, I worry about the content getting stale if it's outside of the process used to generate reference content from yaml files. And I think it's not a great user experience to jump around to find this information. Some kind of consolidated reference of all the fields with an explanation of how they get added would probably be a lot more useful to users.

Do you want to open a separate issue to track this problem?

Reviewer 2: I guess we can replace above link with below resources that the provider gives:
https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/fleet/master/kubernetes-provider.html#_provider_for_pod_resources
https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/fleet/master/kubernetes-provider.html#_provider_for_service_resources
https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/fleet/master/kubernetes-provider.html#_provider_for_node_resources

Indeed I did a little search and could not find a reference for processors in Agent. In our case the processor is handled by agent under the hood.

> The condition `${kubernetes.labels.app} == 'redis'` will make the {agent} look for a Pod with the `redis` label app within the scope defined in its manifest. You can find the exported fields of the Kubernetes integration {metricbeat-ref}/exported-fields-kubernetes-processor.html[here].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The condition `${kubernetes.labels.app} == 'redis'` will make the {agent} look for a Pod with the `redis` label app within the scope defined in its manifest. 

List of exported fields of the Kubernetes integration {metricbeat-ref}/exported-fields-kubernetes-processor.html[here] to be used in conditions.
```

To deploy Redis, you can apply the following example manifest:

[source,yaml]
------------------------------------------------
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: test-redis-config
data:
  redis-config: |
    maxmemory 2mb
    maxmemory-policy allkeys-lru
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: redis
  labels:
    k8s-app: redis
    app: redis
spec:
  containers:
  - name: redis
    image: redis:5.0.4
    command:
      - redis-server
      - "/redis-master/redis.conf"
    env:
    - name: MASTER
      value: "true"
    ports:
    - containerPort: 6379
    resources:
      limits:
        cpu: "0.1"
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: /redis-master-data
      name: data
    - mountPath: /redis-master
      name: config
  volumes:
    - name: data
      emptyDir: {}
    - name: config
      configMap:
        name: test-redis-config
        items:
        - key: redis-config
          path: redis.conf
------------------------------------------------

> You should now be able to see Redis data flowing in on index `metrics-redis.info-default`. Make sure that the port on your Redis manifest file and the one used in the Redis input match. Note that at this point all the assets (dashboards, ingest pipelines, and so on) related to the Redis integration are not installed. You need to explicitly <<install-uninstall-integration-assets,install them through Kibana>>.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You should now be able to see Redis data flowing in on index `metrics-redis.info-default`. Make sure that the port on your Redis manifest file and the one used in the Redis input match. 

**Note:** All assets (dashboards, ingest pipelines, and so on) related to the Redis integration are not installed. You need to explicitly <<install-uninstall-integration-assets,install them through Kibana>>.
```

[[conditions-based-autodiscover]]
= Conditions based autodiscover

> You can define autodiscover conditions in each input to allow {agent} to automatically identify Pods and start monitoring them using predefined integrations. You can find more about these inputs and their configurations <<elastic-agent-input-configuration,here>>.

Author: I corrected the wording. I also made same changes to the inputs config file to make it more clear. It's not complete, but at least for now, it has some definitions for the fields. Do you think it makes sense to point to that page, or should that be removed all together?

> You can define autodiscover conditions in each input to allow {agent} to automatically identify Pods and start monitoring them using predefined integrations. You can find more about these inputs and their configurations <<elastic-agent-input-configuration,here>>.

Author: I pointed to the System module in one of the definitions. I am not sure if it was the right thing to do, but I wanted to give the a user a direction for finding the metricsets

> You can define autodiscover conditions in each input to allow {agent} to automatically identify Pods and start monitoring them using predefined integrations. You can find more about these inputs and their configurations <<elastic-agent-input-configuration,here>>.

Reviewer 3: >Do you think it makes sense to point to that page, or should that be removed all together?

Actually I think you should point to that page because it's better than nothing, and eventually users will be able to find content that's more meaningful there.

> I pointed to the System module in one of the definitions. I am not sure if it was the right thing to do, but I wanted to give the a user a direction for finding the metricsets

I think that's the best you can do right now. Might be worth adding a sentence that explains why you're pointing to the Metricbeat docs. (Something about how the input configuration settings for standalone agents are not yet documented, but inputs support the same settings available in Metricbeat as metricsets.)

> == Example: Target pods by host and label

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
== Example: Target Pods by host and label
```
I'm only going to mark this once, but I believe that Kubernetes always capitalizes Pod in their docs. Apply this change globally.

Reviewer 4: What do we mean here host and label?
The condition is just `condition: ${kubernetes.labels.app} == 'redis'`.

To automatically identify a Redis Pod and monitor it with the Redis integration, uncomment the following input configuration inside  the {agent} Standalone manifest [here](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/blob/main/deploy/kubernetes/elastic-agent-standalone-kubernetes.yaml):

[source,yaml]
------------------------------------------------
- name: redis
  type: redis/metrics
  use_output: default
  meta:
    package:
      name: redis
      version: 0.3.6
  data_stream:
    namespace: default
  streams:
    - data_stream:
        dataset: redis.info
        type: metrics
      metricsets:
        - info
      hosts:
        - '${kubernetes.pod.ip}:6379'
      idle_timeout: 20s
      maxconn: 10
      network: tcp
      period: 10s
      condition: ${kubernetes.labels.app} == 'redis'
------------------------------------------------

The condition `${kubernetes.labels.app} == 'redis'` will make the {agent} look for a Pod with the `redis` label app within the scope defined in its manifest. 

> 

Reviewer 5: This sentence does not make a lot of sense. Maybe rephrase to 
```suggestion
The condition `${kubernetes.labels.app} == 'redis'` will make the {agent} look for a Pod with the  label `app:redis` within the scope defined in its manifest.
```

List of exported fields of the Kubernetes integration {metricbeat-ref}/exported-fields-kubernetes-processor.html[here] to be used in conditions.

> The `redis` input defined in the {agent} manifest only has `info` as metricset. You can find more metricsets in the {metricbeat-ref}/metricbeat-module-redis.html[Redis module page], as well as the configuration options.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `redis` input defined in the {agent} manifest only specifies the`info` metricset. To learn about other available metricsets and their configuration settings, refer to the {metricbeat-ref}/metricbeat-module-redis.html[Redis module page].
```
Again I think it will be confusing to users that we point to the module docs, but I don't have a better solution our standalone config docs are incomplete. :-(

Reviewer 2: Indeed that is another good example that we refer to metricsets but we dont explain how agent uses them under the hood. 

@dedemorton does it make sense to give as a note here a small explanation what metricset term is? or it becomes confusing?

Reviewer 2: @dedemorton  https://github.com/elastic/observability-docs/issues/2384 relevant issue to track processors. 
We can follow discussion there but is not urgent

Reviewer 3: @gizas I've commented on your request. I'm actually working on the processors documentation right now.

Reviewer 3: >does it make sense to give as a note here a small explanation what metricset term is? or it becomes confusing?

Actually I think we should be using "dataset" here because that's the correct term to use when talking about Elastic Agent integrations. We are just in a really awkward position right now because the standalone configuration docs are incomplete (a deliberate decision by management to prioritize to Fleet docs over standalone because we have limited resources to work on all the docs).

To deploy Redis, you can apply the following example manifest:

[source,yaml]
------------------------------------------------

> apiVersion: v1

Reviewer 4: Do we need all these extra stuff? Maybe a simpler manifest fits better to the docs. 
I use the following to deploy a simple Redis Pod: 
```yml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: redis
  annotations:
    #co.elastic.metrics/module: redis
    #co.elastic.metrics/hosts: '${data.host}:6379'
    
    co.elastic.hints/package: redis
    co.elastic.hints/host: '${kubernetes.pod.ip}:6379'
    co.elastic.hints/data_streams: info, key
    #co.elastic.hints/info.period: 5s
  labels:
    k8s-app: redis
    app: redis
spec:
  containers:
  - image: redis
    imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
    name: redis
    ports:
    - name: redis
      containerPort: 6379
      protocol: TCP
```

kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: test-redis-config
data:
  redis-config: |
    maxmemory 2mb
    maxmemory-policy allkeys-lru
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: redis
  labels:
    k8s-app: redis
    app: redis
spec:
  containers:
  - name: redis
    image: redis:5.0.4
    command:
      - redis-server
      - "/redis-master/redis.conf"
    env:
    - name: MASTER
      value: "true"
    ports:
    - containerPort: 6379
    resources:
      limits:
        cpu: "0.1"
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: /redis-master-data
      name: data
    - mountPath: /redis-master
      name: config
  volumes:
    - name: data
      emptyDir: {}
    - name: config
      configMap:
        name: test-redis-config
        items:
        - key: redis-config
          path: redis.conf
------------------------------------------------

> You should now be able to see Redis data flowing in on index `metrics-redis.info-default`. Make sure that the port on your Redis manifest file and the one used in the Redis input match. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You should now be able to see Redis data flowing in on index `metrics-redis.info-default`. Make sure the port in your Redis manifest file matches the port used in the Redis input. 
```

> **Note:** All assets (dashboards, ingest pipelines, and so on) related to the Redis integration are not installed. You need to explicitly <<install-uninstall-integration-assets,install them through Kibana>>.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
NOTE: All assets (dashboards, ingest pipelines, and so on) related to the Redis integration are not installed. You need to explicitly <<install-uninstall-integration-assets,install them through {kib}>>.
```

> == Example: Target pods by label

Reviewer 5: @ChrsMark and @gizas do you understand what is the difference between `Target pods by label` and `Target pods by host and label` example?

Reviewer 4: `Target pods by host and label` example looks the same with `Target pods by label` example. The only difference is that the Redis example uses `${kubernetes.pod.ip}` as a host but this should not identify the example since it could be any value coming from the metadata. I would avoid making so explicit here.

> WARNING: In some "As a Service" Kubernetes implementations, like GKE, the control plane nodes or even the pods running on them won’t be visible. In these cases, it won’t be possible to use scheduler metricsets, necessary for this example. Refer https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/metricbeat/current/metricbeat-module-kubernetes.html#_scheduler_and_controllermanager[here] to find more information.

Reviewer 3: same comment...avoid using "here" as link text.

To set the target host dynamically only for a targeted Pod based on its labels, use a variable in the
{agent} policy to return path information from the provider:

[source,yaml]
----
- data_stream:
    dataset: kubernetes.scheduler
    type: metrics
  metricsets:
    - scheduler
  bearer_token_file: /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/token
  hosts:
    - 'https://${kubernetes.pod.ip}:10259'
  period: 10s
  ssl.verification_mode: none
  condition: ${kubernetes.labels.component} == 'kube-scheduler'
----

> If you now deploy another Redis pod with a different port, it should be detected. You can check this by, for example, studying the field `service.address` under `metrics-redis.info-default`. It should now display 2 different services.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you now deploy another Redis pod with a different port, it should be detected. You can check this by, for example, studying the field `service.address` under `metrics-redis.info-default`. It should now display two different services.
```

> If you now deploy another Redis pod with a different port, it should be detected. You can check this by, for example, studying the field `service.address` under `metrics-redis.info-default`. It should now display 2 different services.

Reviewer 4: How Redis is relevant here? Right before we are talking about `scheduler` 🤔 ?

Author: I wrote about that to give the user the chance to check how that works. I rephrased a little bit to make it more clear: "Following the Redis example, if you deploy another Redis Pod with a different port, it should be detected. To check this, go, for example, to the field `service.address` under `metrics-redis.info-default`. It should be displaying two different services.". But even if this doesn't make sense now, we can remove it. What do you think?

> To obtain the policy generated by this configuration get inside the {agent} container:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To obtain the policy generated by this configuration, get inside the {agent} container:
```
"get inside" seems a bit informal, but it's OK if that's common terminology for K8s.
